The lens in your eye
helps you to see objects clearly
both close up and far away.
It focuses reflected light
from an object on the retina.
The light is converted into nerve signals
that are sent to the brain,
which translates the signals into vision.
Muscles change the curvature
and focusing power of the lens
according to how far away an object is.
As we get older,
the lens becomes less flexible
and has more trouble curving steeply
when we look at something close up.
This changes where light is
focused on the retina,
so close objects may appear blurry.
This problem is called presbyopia.
Another part of the eye that
changes with age is the iris.
It consists mostly of muscle,
which controls the size of the
pupil at its center,
and therefore the amount of light
that passes through it.
As we get older,
these muscles become weaker
and less able to respond quickly
to changes in light,
which makes it harder to see
in dim light.
Eyeglasses help the natural lens
to focus images correctly on the retina.
Sometimes different lenses are required
to correct images from both near
and far objects.
Contact lenses and permanent lens implants
can also be helpful
for correcting presbyopia.